MTA-6893 Document Hub OIDC authentication (#382)
migtools/mta-documentation: docs/topics/mta-install/proc_create-custom-resource-ldap-federation.adoc

:_newdoc-version: 2.18.5
:_template-generated: 2025-07-31
:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="create-custom-resource-ldap-federation_{context}"]
= Create a custom resource for LDAP or AD federation

[role="_abstract"]

> To enable the Hub OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to federate authentication to the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) or an Active Directory (AD) server, the Administrator must create an `LdapProvider` custom resource and a secret for the LDAP service account.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable the Hub OpenID Connect (OIDC) provider to federate authentication to an LDAP or Active Directory (AD) server, create an `LdapProvider` custom resource (CR) and a secret for the LDAP service account.
```

.Prerequisites

* You installed {ProductShortName} 8.2.0 in an OpenShift cluster.
* You have `admin` access to the cluster.

> * You configured an LDAP service account with read-only permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You have installed {ProductShortName} 8.2.0 on a Red{nbsp}Hat OpenShift Container Platform cluster.
* You have `admin` access to the cluster.
* You have configured an LDAP service account with read-only permissions.
```

.Procedure

. Create an `ldap-secret.yaml` file:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: ldap-service-account
  namespace: openshift-mta
type: Opaque
stringData:
  password: "<service-account-password>"
----

. Apply the `ldap-secret` file in the cluster:
+
[subs="+quotes"]
----
$ *oc apply -f ldap-secret.yaml*
----

. Create an `ldap.yaml` file for the custom resource (CR):
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: tackle.konveyor.io/v1alpha1
kind: LdapProvider
metadata:
  name: corporate-ldap
  namespace: openshift-mta
spec:
  name: "Corporate LDAP"
  kind: "ActiveDirectory"
  url: "ldaps://ldap.example.com:636"
  baseDN: "dc=example,dc=com"
  bindDN: "cn=service,dc=example,dc=com"
  password:
    name: ldap-service-account
    namespace: openshift-mta
  userFilter: "(sAMAccountName=${login})"
  groupFilter: "(&(objectClass=group)(member=${dn}))"
  hasMemberOf: true
  roleMappings:
    - and:
        - Developers
      roles:
        - architect
    - any:
        - "**Administrator**"
      roles:
        - admin
----
+

> * `kind`:: Server type is "ACTIVEDIRECTORY", "AD", or blank for other LDAP implementations such as OpenLDAP.

Reviewer: HERE - 13th July

* `url`:: LDAP server URL
* `baseDN`:: Base Distinguished Name to narrow the scope for LDAP searches
* `bindDN`:: unique identifier of the service account used to authenticate against the LDAP directory
* `password`:: Reference to Secret containing service account password
* `userFilter`:: User search filter. The default value for the user filter in AD is `(sAMAccountName=%s)` and `(uid=%s)` for other LDAP implementations when you do not configure a value in the CR.
+
To override the default, configure `userFilter: "(sAMAccountName=${login})"` for AD or `userFilter: "(uid=${uid})"` for other LDAP implementations.
* `groupFilter`:: Group search filter. The default value for the group filter in AD is `groupFilter: "(&(objectClass=group)(member=%s))"` and `(&(objectClass=*)(member=%s))` for other LDAP implementations when you do not configure a group in the CR.
+
To override the default, configure `groupFilter: "(&(objectClass=group)(member=${dn}))"` for distinguished name. You can replace `{dn}` with `{uid}` for a unique identifier or `{cn}` for a common name.
* `hasMemberOf`:: Use memberOf attribute for group membership in AD.

> * `roleMappings`:: Map LDAP groups to Hub roles. The {ProductShortName} roles can be a list of default or custom roles. When you use global patterns to match the LDAP roles, you must use the DoubleStar pattern or double asterisk to match the complete role name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`url`:: Specifies the LDAP server URL.
`baseDN`:: Specifies the base distinguished name (DN) to narrow the scope for LDAP searches.
`bindDN`:: Specifies the unique identifier of the service account that is used to authenticate against the LDAP directory.
`password`:: Specifies a reference to the secret that contains the service account password.
`userFilter`:: Specifies the user search filter. The default value for the user filter in Active Directory (AD) is `(sAMAccountName=%s)`, and `(uid=%s)` for other LDAP implementations, when you do not configure a value in the CR.
+
To override the default, configure `userFilter: "(sAMAccountName=${login})"` for AD or `userFilter: "(uid=${uid})"` for other LDAP implementations.
`groupFilter`:: Specifies the group search filter. The default value for the group filter in AD is `groupFilter: "(&(objectClass=group)(member=%s))"`, and `(&(objectClass=*)(member=%s))` for other LDAP implementations, when you do not configure a group in the CR.
+
To override the default, configure `groupFilter: "(&(objectClass=group)(member=${dn}))"` for a distinguished name. You can replace `{dn}` with `{uid}` for a unique identifier or `{cn}` for a common name.
`hasMemberOf`:: Specifies whether to use the `memberOf` attribute for group membership in AD.
`roleMappings`:: Specifies the mapping of LDAP groups to Hub roles. The {ProductShortName} roles can be a list of default or custom roles. When you use global patterns to match the LDAP roles, use the DoubleStar pattern or a double asterisk (`**`) to match the complete role name.
```
